# educational_concept_librarian
6.8610 Final Project Proposal: A Library Learning Approach to Investigate the Usefulness of Conceptual Abstractions in Educational Videos

With the rise of digital education on platforms like Youtube, Khan Academy, and MIT OpenCourseware, maximizing the quality of online educational resources is of fundamental importance. A key determinant of a student’s comprehension of a subject is the quality and clarity of the instructor’s explanation of a topic. However, the linguistic features of an ideal explanation, such as which concepts are invoked to construct a new concept, are challenging to identify. 
For this project, we define a set of competing hypotheses about the way abstractions should be optimally used to teach a subject like linear algebra. In the “abstract concept hypothesis,” videos on advanced topics should use as many abstractions as possible – rather than invoking the elementary concepts upon which those abstractions are based – for efficiency and to build cohesive understanding of the subject. In the competing “elementary concept hypothesis,” instructors should frequently invoke elementary concepts to ensure comprehension. An alternate “shared library hypothesis” is that frequent references to concepts shared among many topics – regardless of their level of abstraction – are beneficial. If better fitting hypotheses arise over the course of the project, we will make sure to update our hypothesis list. We aim to distinguish among these hypotheses by evaluating and interpreting regression models that predict the ratio of video likes to video views in YouTube metadata. We plan to employ a library learning approach to develop interpretable features, in the form of natural language descriptions of mathematical operations, for a supervised video popularity prediction model. 
